# InfiniteHotel
The infinite hotel SMS based command line interface game
Project created by Tyler Sverak

The Infinite Hotel is a command line interface multiplayer SMS puzzle game. You play as a character that explores the infinite hotel, using your knowledge to solve mysteries and progress. The current implementation uses the command line of the machine it is ran on and not from SMS input.

# How to Play
As your character, you interact with the environment via commands. You are given a prompt with options you can choose from. It is HIGHLY SUGGESTED you read the guides as the game may not be intuitive without understanding how the game works. The guides are also below for your convenience. You can read the books with input "inspect guide" in the lobby (the first room you are in).

Welcome to the Infinite Hotel! This guide should help give you some idea of how to navigate the hotel. Everyone participating will be able to interact with each other, and any changes you make to the environment will be visible to other people. Feel free to explore as much as you want, and check out the other guides! [contact me if you have any questions you can't figure out].

The first thing to learn is how to provide input. You will receive messages containing all the actions you can do. Each action is indicated by a ">" followed by a word in all caps. If you want to do that action, type the capitalized part of the message. For example, if you were given the option "> PRESS the button" you would need to only type "press" to do that action (don't worry about capitalization in the messages you send).

Some actions need some additional info to be performed. We call this additional info a parameter, and actions that need a parameter have a "*" behind the name of the action. For example, "EXAMINE" lets you look at an item you have. But you also need to specify which item! If given the option "> EXAMINE * Shovel, Flashlight, Ty's Note, Match" you would respond with "examine ty's note" to look at that item. Notice upper or lower case doesn't matter, but otherwise the name must match exactly. "SPEAK" is a unique action that requires you to enter what you will say, for example "speak very cool" would make your character say "very cool" out loud. If you use SPEAK, other people in the room will hear whatever you say (maybe you should say hi?). Not all actions have an effect in every room. Try experimenting with where you do certain actions to see if something new happens. There are also a few hidden actions that can be revealed as you explore. If you mistype an action or the additional info, it will prompt you to try again.

The GO action: GO is important because it allows you to move. The options GO lets you pick are usually compass directions to help give you an idea of how the space is laid out. Sometimes you may encounter a passage way that is locked or otherwise blocked.

Items: items can be found in the hotel. You can DROP, PICKUP, or EXAMINE items. If you DROP an item, it will remain in that room and other players can find it and pick it up. You can PICKUP items left by other players or found in the hotel (if you are given the option of picking up an item and are told the item doesn't seem to be there, it usually means someone grabbed it after you entered the room but before you tried to pick it up). You can check out the item with EXAMINE, which may give hints how you can use it. While all items can be looked at with EXAMINE, some items have no functionality and are mean to be moved to another room or are decorative. Some items have a specific action that they will enable you to do, like how an apple item might have the action "EAT" that you can use at any time you have the item. Item actions will be listed along with your normal other actions.

The Infinite Elevator: the elevator in the hotel is, well, infinite and allows you to travel to any possible number floor. It's a magic elevator (duh) so once you are in the elevator, you only need to speak what floor you want to go to, for example "speak 6" would take you to floor 6 [hint: don't go to floor 6]. You're currently on the main floor (1). If you wait too long in the elevator, it will kick you out. If someone else is using the elevator, you won't be able to use it, so wait 10 seconds or so and try again. While the elevator is infinite, you may find two different numbers will take you to the same floor. In that case, try a new number to keep exploring.

If you want more information on how to play or are having trouble uncovering hints, visit the Great Library on floor 0. Also if you're having a hard time, always make sure to read through the messages you get! Often you will have the hints you need already, if you are paying attention.

# IMPORTANT: TL;DR FOR LAZY PEOPLE
alright fine so you just want to play asap. ok. first thing is texting is a fickle mistress. the texts aren't always reliable so sometimes waiting can help. also, speaking does nothing a lot so if you think it is stuck, do "speak asdasdsagfdgdfg" (don't do the quotes and obviously you can say whatever it doesn't matter) which should at least refresh your options. not a whole lot I can do. anyway, quick way to play is you have options like GO * west, downstairs. the action is GO, and the * means you have to pick one of the options. so like "go west" would work. everything is case insensitive, so "gO   wEst" is the same as "go west". another option example is PRESS the button. to pick that one, just type the first word, in this case "press". most of the hotel is laid out so you have a sense of direction. if you go downstairs to a room, going upstairs should take you back to the first room. use the elevator to go to other floors, floors can be literally any number (dont do fractions or you are not nice).

# Implementation
The game uses the Twilio SMS API and a simple web server to send and receive text messages. Each message is then sent to a seperate thread that interprets the text message and responds to the player appropriately. The hotel is comprised of a number of floors all linked together by the elevator, and by using the elevator the player can traverse other floors. All items, features, rooms, floors, and players exist in the same one game, so consequences of one player's actions will affect everyone else. The web server is hosted locally and accessible via ngrok. The ngrok URL is then given to the Twilio API.

# Lessons Learned and Future Development
Over the course of this project, I learned a ton about how to interact with the Twilio API (I have recently upgraded my account and was exploring the new functionality) as well as got extremely comfortable with dictionaries, classes, references, conditional operators, ngrok, JSONs, and learned how to run a simple web server. There was a lot of interesting debugging with the Twilio API, where weirdly I would have to check my email or the error logs to see what went wrong. I even ran out of money in my Twilio account, which temporarily stopped the program from working. I was wise to think forward while developing even the earliest parts, and while the initial development was pretty tough, once I had an initial framework the rest came easy. It was difficult to debug multiplayer issues, but by keeping a lot of game functionality relatively simple, it wasn't too bad. There are still some structures left in the code for future development, like image names that could be used to send players images to give them a better ideas of where they were. I hope to revisit this project in the future, but the biggest hurdle is cost, as each text costs .79 cents. Perhaps I would have to find a way to monetize the game.
